this is straight off the dome unlike my
other videos that have hours of
preparation and rehearsal and are
carefully scripted this is even more
improvised than usual but I just had a
comment in the chat talking about
dealing with the level of hate on
youtube on the internet in being a vegan
etc etc obviously this is an issue that
comes up again and again ain't never
going to go away like I said a long time
ago I think that some of the hate and
animosity and competitive spirit is just
a feature of the genre in the same way
that someone might have complained in
the early 1980s that hip hop music was
just going through a phase in which
rappers hated one another and salted one
another etc at some point you gotta
realize it's not a phase it's just the
feature of the genre hip-hop music one
element of it not the whole game not the
whole genre one element of it is this
competitive insulting thing that goes on
with rappers hate other rappers and even
when they don't eat other rappers they
pretend to hate other rappers it is a
feature of the genre some genres of
music are like that and some are not I
do not remember jazz music having that
signature I do not remember you know the
four tops getting into it with you know
other barbershop quartets but i don't
know maybe they did and that stuff just
wasn't front and center maybe that stuff
was just kept below the surface in that
industry and wasn't wasn't upfront the
way it is in hip-hop music anyway it is
a feature of the genre it is something I
cope with and something I've seen lately
a whole lot of the best people you know
in the game have already quit they've
already closed you on their YouTube
channel 30 shut down shop and quit I've
seen that happen a whole bunch of times
I could name names but hey one you can
still enjoy on my channel remember uh
American unicorn she quit and she was
very unusual because she was actually a
religious conservative she believed in
no sex before marriage another really
kinky stuff like that um and she was out
here talking about veganism from her
perspective that was very different from
everyone else's perspective she shut
down a closer youtube channel azaria I'd
have a one-hour over one hour podcast
zaria that I'm always promoting I think
it's called the agony of activism still
great video much ill she closed down
moved on I've talked to her since then a
lot of the best people really shut down
entirely but another thing that's
happening that I see going on right now
is people well course some people are
saying they're gonna quit and they're
liars they're faking you out there just
trying to get sympathy from the audience
they don't really quit but some people
are actually they're quitting in
principle but they're keeping their
their channels up so quite a few people
they don't say they're quitting they say
they've decided to change how they use
YouTube and now it's just going to be
one video a week or one video a month
they basically lost faith in the whole
game and they're not they're not using
the platform the way they used to so
look um radio was a circus back in the
1950s okay and people got their hearts
broken and people got their teeth
knocked out and people got beat up
people paid bribes believe it or not
back when radio was a really happening
important medium there was organized
crime involved there were court cases
there were countersuits and there were
you know there was violence and
defamation and it was it was rough
because people were passionate about
radio and for sure you can lose faith in
a particular DJ or in the management of
particular station but that doesn't
normally lead to you losing faith in
radio itself as a medium as a platform
when you look at any medium when it was
new and growing and influential and
really mattered I think most media go
through this kind of Wild West period
and I I've said before I've given
respect recently I don't really think
I'm really in this in the true Wild West
period when people don't know what the
rules aren't people don't know what the
risks are I think guys like the amazing
atheist and a nice en they were really
the Trail Blazers and they showed us all
what the risks are so much is mentioning
hey Nia so hey Nia is saying she's
afraid for her life etc because of
YouTube you know well look at the guys
like amazing atheist and a nice Ian who
really went through it who have already
been doxed and defamed and the i think i
was gonna say dragged into court i
forget if those guys back cher court
cases also but you know the kind of
drama and harassment and insults they've
had to deal with
etc etc it is what it is right um but
here's what it isn't for me YouTube as a
platform is fundamentally different than
the four tops trying to get on the radio
right it's fundamentally different from
television or radio or the newspapers or
even in the distant past I used to make
money at a magazines writing for
magazines or editing books up right it's
different because I'm actually doing
this to make the world a better place
I'm actually doing this for ecology for
veganism as a cause for the animals and
to some extent yes I sympathize with
what other people are going through when
they either close down their channels or
have these crises or change that they
played against cetera et cetera but
there is also an extent to which I don't
who the [ __ ] has suffered less for their
political cause than me let's keep it
all the way real do you think that civil
rights activists back in the 1960s
suffered less than I've suffered look
like I've suffered okay I've suffered
you've seen me come on and complain
about misery in my life etc and we've
seen all the other vegans on YouTube
come on and talk about how hard their
lives are and how people defaming them
via it's true it's totally true okay but
if you're doing this for the cause if
you're not out here pursuing a career in
entertainment if you're not like the
Four Tops trying to get on the radio if
you're not like a rapper just trying to
promote yourself on MTV or these days on
youtube if it's not about your career if
it's actually about the cause if it's
not just entertainment if it's not just
music if it's not just wrapped if it's
realer than rap as we say then you've
got to see your suffering in that
perspective okay I remember I was once
talking to this white girl in in England
she was an idiot I think she had a PhD
but she was still an idiot I'm keeping
it real
Oh Casey stuff you complete idiot and um
she had just gone to a lecture given by
this cult I could name the cult i'm not
going to this cult group that really
played on social activist themes some of
you will already guess which called him
talking about anyway and you know they
talked a lot about Gandhi and Martin
Luther King and making the world a
better place and and what have you and
so she was she was repeating the [ __ ]
she just got indoctrinated into her from
this this cold and i said to her yes
thank you Mickey dr. Martin Luther King
jr. we have to get the full name MLK jr.
sorry it's a long name we leave out the
junior my looking junior overtime winner
um and you know I looked her straight in
the face and I said you say you want to
live like Martin Luther King jr. do you
want to die like Martin Luther King jr.
and she looked at me like I you know I
just arrived from Mars now do you know
how he died do you know why he was
killed do you actually know what the
stakes are in this game you're talking
about playing she wasn't even someone
playing it she was really just being
manipulated by a cult group that wasn't
even sincerely political and not even
sincere litical activist there are
similar aspects to some of the vegan
groups that reach out to you by invoking
these names of Gandhi and Martin Luther
King and civil rights and the abolition
of slavery and these big issues if
that's other is that what we're really
talking about or those really the stakes
we're talking about like you guys
probably know I'm not a communist I'm if
anything I'm anti-communist but like
when you looked at the lives that
communists lived like you know my part
of the world 1960s 1970s type of people
who literally went to live in a cave
with bombs drop dropping all around them
in northern Vietnam on the you know Wow
Vietnamese border
met people who lived in those caves in
Lhasa met a woman who has a child the
education she had was on a chalkboard in
a [ __ ] cave up by the border between
Laos and Vietnam ok with bombs falling
and she witnessed people being shot to
death by American provided helicopters
etc ok keeping it real keeping it real
yes I do suffer ok I do people say
unforgivable things about me on the
Internet people defame me people make up
stories about me and my personal life
and my legal case and my daughter and
also uh complete strangers proposed
marriage to me and women try to hook up
with me and offer to have sex with me
you know who you are some of you are in
this chat room right now like yeah there
were all kinds of absurdities and Real
Talk there's sorrow I've made friends
and I've had friends betray me and stab
me in the back and I've lost friends yet
there I can I can sympathize with all of
it but if we're not thinking about this
as a genre of entertainment if we're
thinking about this as a genre of thing
about this of a form of activism even if
it's nice a'n't the first baby steps
towards having effective meaningful
political activism when you see it in
that context when you see it as
suffering for the cause who has suffered
less I am in the ultimate privileged
position that I don't need to even
interrupt my day to walk down the street
to give this lecture standing at a
podium I don't even have to make my bed
I can just turn on the camera and talk
and I can reach an audience that cares
and cares about what I care about and
you share my aspirations to make the
world a better place I can do my little
bit and I can pull those connections and
work for this better tomorrow so is it
worth it one by one you know people are
deciding whether whether or not it's
worth it to them but yes I approach this
as a political science problem I
approach vegan
activism as a political movement and for
that reason I see my personal sorrow and
suffering or just within a totally
different sense of scale okay because
any of these figures that people so
lightly quote and invoke the names of
whatever Martin Luther King Gandhi or
whatever what we're doing here on
YouTube this ain't [ __ ] yet